---
title: Why parcel is so much better than gulp and webpack
copyright_year: 2019
tags: [parcel, js]
---

For most of my programming career I have, probably like most developers, started most of my web projects by creating a file structure that I liked and then writing a gulp file that looks something like this:

```javascript
var gulp        = require('gulp');
var sass        = require('gulp-sass');
var autoprefix  = require('gulp-autoprefixer');
var pug       	= require('gulp-pug');
var minifyHtml  = require("gulp-minify-html");
var cleanCSS 	= require('gulp-clean-css');
var rename 	= require("gulp-rename");
var livereload  = require('gulp-livereload');
var plumber     = require('gulp-plumber');
var shell     = require('gulp-shell');

gulp.task('markdown', shell.task('python static-gen-v1.0.py'));

gulp.task('pug', function buildHTML(){
  return gulp.src('src/pug/*.pug')
  .pipe(plumber())
  .pipe(pug({pretty: true}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('build'))
  .pipe(livereload());

  gulp.start('markdown');
});

gulp.task('sass', function () {
  return gulp.src('src/sass/index.sass')
  .pipe(plumber())
  .pipe(sass())
  .pipe(autoprefix(['last 15 versions', '> 1%', 'ie 8', 'ie 7'], { cascade: true }))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('build'))
  .pipe(livereload());
});


gulp.task('watch', function () { //TODO: Stop the produced css file from triggering recompile
  livereload.listen({reloadPage:'build/index.html'});
  gulp.watch('./src/markdown/**/*.md', ['markdown']);
  gulp.watch('./src/sass/**/*.sass', ['sass']); //Whenever a file in the css folder changes recompile the sass files
  gulp.watch('./src/pug/**/*.pug', ['pug']);  //Whenever a file in the pug folder changes recompile the pug files
});

gulp.task('sass-min', function () {
  gulp.src('css/main.sass')
  .pipe(plumber())
  .pipe(sass())
  .pipe(autoprefix(['last 15 versions', '> 1%', 'ie 8', 'ie 7'], { cascade: true }))
  .pipe(cleanCSS({compatibility: 'ie8'}))
  .pipe(rename({suffix: ".min"}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('css'))
})

gulp.task('pug-min', function () {
  gulp.src("html/*.html")
  .pipe(plumber())
  .pipe(minifyHtml())
  .pipe(rename({suffix: ".min"}))
  .pipe(gulp.dest('html'));
})

gulp.task('default', ['watch', 'sass', 'pug', 'markdown']);
```
I'm sorry for the huge block of code by the way. I couldn't resist. Most people who have been around the block a few times have written a gulp file that looks a lot like this one.

You start by running ```bash npm install``` for gulp, gulp sass, gulp markdown, etc. for each gulp plugin you want to use. Then you get to work. You set down and write 50 to 100 lines of code to tell gulp how you want the sass compiled, whether you want the final project to go in the dist folder or the build folder, etc. But, like me, when you first started using gulp you probably thought that it was the greatest thing ever(and don't get me wrong, I still think its very cool.

But writing 50 lines of code before you can even start working on your project is tedius. And, even if you have a gulp file that you use between multiple projects you still need to make changes now and again. Say you want to use pug in a project but your gulp file isn't setup for it. Furthermore, because gulp requires you to tell it where everything is located(sass files, md files, etc.) if can be very rigid and hard to change.

## There must be a better way!

Fortunately, there are several alternatives to gulp. The two major ones, and the ones you are probably familiar with are Webpack and Parcel. If you read the title of this post you can probably guess that I prefer parcel.

The problem with webpack is that its configuration is notoriously difficult to setup. Like our gulp config above, webpack requires manually installing plugins, and spending an hour or two configuring webpack to do exactly what you need it to. So, a lot of the problems with getting started with gulp, also apply to getting started with webpack. So, you are probably asking, how is parcel any different?

### Parcel is different

Parcel handels project building a different way. Instead of installing gulp or webpack dependencies everytime you need to use, say pug, or markdown, or yaml in your project, parcel is smart and will install it and use it automatically whenever it discovers a pug file, or a markdown file, or a yaml file in your project. Further, parcel requires zero configuration. Did I mention that it was smart? To get a better idea of how parcel works lets see an example.

### Installing parcel

To get started lets create a folder for your project and setup npm.

```bash
mkdir ParcelTest
cd ParcelTest
npm init -y
```

Since this is an example of using parcel we of course need to install parcel.

```bash
npm install --save parcel
```

This may take a little while so be patient..
.
### Getting started with parcel

So, once parcel is installed in our project lets get it setup. Unlike webpack or gulp this is very straight forward. But first we need a little boiler plate.

Lets create two files named index.html and index.js

```bash
touch index.html
touch index.js
```

In our index lets add some html boiler plate that includes out index.js file

```bash
<html>
<body>
  <script src="./index.js">
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

Now technically, at this point we are done. We have setup parcel. We can run

```bash
parcel index.html
```

and it will build our project to the dist folder. Wan't that so much easier than using gulp? Not bad for one install and no config. Oh, and for an added bonus parcel will create a development server for us at http://localhost:1234.

### Some fun stuff

While we could stop here we would be missing some of the coolest parts of parcel. Like I mentioned earlier if parcel encounters a file, say a markdown file or a yaml file parcel will automatically download the required plugins needed to handle it. Lets take a look.

Say we want to use yaml in our project. Lets create a file called data.yml

```bash
touch data.yml
```

Lets add one line of yaml to our file. Say,

```bash
siteName: "My wonderful site!"
```

Because we are using parcel we can directly import our yaml into our index.js and use it. Lets add the following to our index.js file

```bash
import data from "./data.yml"

alert("Welcome to " + data.siteName)
```
Assuming that you still have a tab pointed to http://localhost:1234 after you save parcel will reload the page and you will see an alert saying "Welcome to My wonderful site".

How cool is that!? Parcel lets you load yaml into js. For free. No setup required.
