---
title: Docker container randomly not starting.
layout: posts/default
copyright_year: 2019
tags: [docker]
---

I have been having some issues with docker in the last few days. At we use Django with dockerized Postgres and Redis images. We have a docker compose file that looks like this:

```yaml
version: '2'
services:

  postgres:
    image: postgres:latest
    ports:
      - "5432:5432"

  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    ports:
      - "6379:6379"
```

I normally start the docker images by cd-ing into the directory and running

```bash
echo "redis\npostgres" | parallel docker-compose up -d {}
```

## The issue
But recently, both of the contairs would start and then two seconds later the postgres image would crash. This, as I'm sure you can imaging, has been a huge issue for me.

I even tried running the image outside of the docker config file.

```bash
docker run -d -p 5432:5432 postgres:latest
```

However, this was unsuccessful.


## Finding a solution

Thankfully, after a little digging I found a possible answer.

I am a big fan of docker and I use it regularly when I want to test software so I have had a lot of docker containers filling up my root directory. I have my root directory attached to a different partition with limited space. So, docker filling up this partition has been an issue.

I have been having issues with this directory being full but until now I haven't been able to find out what has been filling it up.

> Docker stores everything in /var/lib/docker.

Docker stores everything in /var/lib/docker. So, if you keep this directory on a seperate HD partition it fills up really quickly.

## The solution I found

So, to solve this I needed to clean up old docker contaiers.

Conveniently, docker provides a single command that will clean up any resources — images, containers, volumes, and networks — that are dangling (not associated with a container). That command is

```bash
docker system prune
```
However, this command takes forever and is know to hang. So, Lets try something different.

A second solution is to list all of the dangeling docker images on your system and remove them manually.

To list all dangeling images on your system run

```bash
docker images -f dangling=true
```
This returns a table of all dangeling docker containers on your system.

To remove the images grab the image id from this output(it looks something like c382984cc6d8). One you have the image id run

```bash
docker rmi <ImageID>
```

for each of these that you wish to remove.

## Success!

After running this command on each container that I wanted to remove I was finally able to start the postgres container. Hoperfully this will also solve my issue with running out of space in my root directory.
